big hello from raleigh north carolina
welcome to another episode of b2b
marketing and more
i have a special guest today erica heald
and she's the founder and the lead
consultant
at erica hill the marketing consulting
where she helps a lot of sas startups
and guess what specialty food companies
plan and execute content strategy that
drive business results
hi erica
hello it's so good to see you in your
new house yeah yeah i moved to raleigh
like um i would say four or five months
ago and we finally get situated we still
have quite a bit of furnitures that have
not arrived but if nothing else i have
my desk i have my chair that's why it
counts
you and i
kind of know like thought leadership is
very critical especially for b2b
marketing
so can you share with us in terms of
what is the definition of thought
leadership
in the context of the b2b marketing
specifically and why
is it important for marketers and the
companies so for me and this is coming
from a background of journalism first
and foremost but i've also done my time
you know with the pr agency heading up
comms and house all sorts of that stuff
too
for me thought leadership is when you're
putting those unique perspectives from
leaders within your company
out there in the public on a regular
basis through various types of content
so it could be everything from blog
posts to ebooks to public speaking
engagements podcasts all these different
you know avenues but the key is
people who are subject matter experts
and having a point of view
and this is for me where i see the
biggest kind of issues come up because
frequently and not to disparage um pr
agencies but frequently you will see
thought leadership as a couple of slides
in a pr presentation as you know oh hey
so for this month here's the uh the
thought leadership and it's you know a
couple of catchy headlines with your
ceo's picture next to it and it's like
well that's all great but they're not
necessarily thought leadership a lot of
times they are just you know they're
tied into the pr campaign or what have
you but they're not really focused on
that human being and their experiences
and sharing them with people in a
meaningful way and from my perspective
you have to have that involvement with
that thought leader and have that unique
perspective
and point of view that they're willing
to share if they're gonna just tell you
everything that you already read in hbr
that month that is not gonna work
because people want something authentic
and real
so thought leadership i think
uh just paraphrase what you just said
is much broader than just a couple of
the tagline
and
on the presentation or associated say
with the ceo or senior management from
your perspective that the subject matter
experts of a company
if they know specific topic or field
very very well
they can help other people to learn or
provide some insights
that say other companies or competitors
cannot provide that's also a sense of a
thought leadership is that correct 100
you're so good at that
and whatever what i love that you you
glommed on to immediately was the fact
that you know thought leadership is not
limited to
your c-suite if you're only putting your
ceo out there or the other folks who sit
on that same floor you know if you have
a physical headquarters anymore
realistically some of your best thought
leaders are going to be
those folks with deep subject matter
expertise that know a lot about your
customers or who used to have jobs that
are the same jobs that your ideal
customers have they're gonna be those
people who deeply feel the pain and the
challenges that your customers have
every day those folks are gonna be
fantastic thought leaders and have so
much to offer out there so i definitely
encourage folks to look a little bit
more widely at who could be
part of their thought leadership
programs
understood so what is the biggest
misconception about thought leadership
in addition you just debunk one myth
which is hey thought leadership is just
not about the c-suite it can be about
subject subject matter experts who know
the specific topics or feel very well
what are some of the myths or the
misconceptions out there you know the
really big one is that you can hire an
agency to create thought leadership for
you
a lot of companies do that right
and you know i get approached sometimes
people say oh i you know i know you do
ghostwriting and we want to have some
thought leadership you know program i'm
like fantastic so tell me about you know
your um primary you know thought leaders
and you know how do they like to work
what are their topics etc and then these
folks look at me and kind of blink and
say oh well you would figure that out
and it's like
no i 100 agree with you yeah
maybe i can interview them and ask them
but no i'm not going to tell somebody
what they're going to be a thought
leader about that you got to figure that
out and you frequently you have folks
some folks are great at writing some
folks hate writing and want to like
leave you a voicemail there are people
who want to shoot you a quick video and
show you some things there are other
folks who want to send you some slides
or a doodle it's like
it's so
personal
and there's no way that you can just
outsource thought leadership to another
person it's got to be that partnership
with that subject matter expert and
whoever is going to help with the
content creation
you brought a very good point i ran into
a similar issues i mean um as you
probably have uh known that we've been
we've been friends for uh several years
i was at the corporate world for 20
years
and i did not like actively led the
thought leadership program within the
company i was at but i worked very very
closely with the pr and also the
business units that actually create that
thought leadership program
and i do agree with you having a vision
having a plan in terms of what the
thought leadership program will look
like that's actually the client's job
not agency's job they should actually
know what kind of topics that they want
to go after to actually have a point of
view it's not something that can be
outsourced to agencies or anybody
specifically that part of ownership
needs to be taken on actually on the
client side i 100 agree i mean if there
are clients out there and say oh my god
you know agency you should figure that
out you at least have to provide some
sort of guidance and a brief
to actually help the agencies to figure
that out and a half day of access to
those thought leaders
and also yes access the subject matter
expert and be a conduit right between
the agency and also subject matter
expert to make things happen i do agree
with you on that one that is actually
from my perspective i also firmly
believe
that
the client needs to take ownership on
that to figure out what they want to
take a stand and also what fields they
want to shine as a thought leader so
exactly oh cool very good
so now let's talk about all right
the clients would take the
the ownership of crafting a thought
leadership strategy
with that being said where should they
start where should they get started in
uh to craft that strategy for their
company
well i think you first you start by
thinking about who
in your organization
is not afraid to speak their mind even
if it might ruffle some feathers you
want to find those people who are okay
with sometimes being the one who says
the you know the not so popular opinion
out loud in public and is willing to
talk about it
whereas you don't necessarily want to
pick somebody who is really conflict
adverse or who never engages with people
commenting on their social because we've
all seen that we've all seen folks who
just re-share content and never engage
those people don't make great thought
leaders because inevitably someone's
going to hate what they did and come at
them and if they don't respond at all
that is just you know that is death to
your program right there because you
can't have it be it can't just seem like
it's a one-way blast of information
coming from a brand it has to be an
authentic human being who's willing to
have a conversation
so to me that's the really the first
thing is to figure out who has those you
know
interesting and controversial opinions
and is willing to engage on them because
also
what is your goal with them being a
thought leader it's presumably because
you either want to learn more about you
know your audience's needs you want to
get the interest of journalists you want
to give them you know a wider platform
to go and share their values and ideals
that then support your brand promise
but again if all they're doing is just
kind of being very lukewarm that's not
really going to work or if they just
really like being educational and
teaching then maybe you do something
different with them you've got to have
that unique point of view and
willingness to kind of you know to throw
down the gauntlet and be like all right
i'm here and i'm ready who will stand up
to me and let's have a debate
that's actually very challenging
especially in big enterprise a lot of
things needs to be approved by pr and
also legal teams and compliance
i totally agree so when you actually
have so many people like many people in
the kitchen and all of a sudden once
they get to like three rounds of
approval everything kind of get watered
down what is your thought on that
when you know you're going to be
creating some sort of
content that really has that potential
to be
a little bit more controversial so not
just like a a new approach to something
but something that's like really big and
you know if it's you're talking to a
publicly traded um company and it's
their executive you know it could be
really helpful to have somebody from
legal or compliance that you know is
supportive of you doing thought
leadership
the people who have like the right
regulatory
certifications
have one of those people on the call
with you
that way you can have that kind of
real-time
caution or guidance up front while
you're conducting your interview with
the subject matter expert so that way
they can steer you away from things that
could be problematic like for example
you know i used to work at charles
schwab and i worked very closely with
legal and compliance so my stuff would
get through pretty quickly for review
because i knew things like you don't use
the word options
you know what to do and what to say what
not to say exactly like i knew which
words were triggers like you don't use
the word options because that's you know
you don't use by saying oh you have a
lot of options for you know where to do
x y or z options needed to only be used
as a word if you're talking about
trading options
because that it was a whole nother chain
of people to review and approve to then
look at it and say oh well that's not
what you're talking about but you know
what we hate something else in your
content and then you would just be going
around in circles so you've got to have
that kind of input i think up front
and then it gets really really smooth
and if you're really lucky there'll be
somebody on
your client's team
who can do some of that kind of
pre-review and give you some of that
coaching too
have a conversation with the pr and
legal and the compliance team in advance
understand kind of like their guardrail
or the same box that you can play
and in general within certain proper
guidance you still can steer or stir
controversial topics and it still can
have a very meaningful conversation i
always feel like when you get pr when
you get legal when you get compliance
involved the same box tend to be very
small
and the topics that you can talk about
tend to be very narrow and you have to
follow specific script
what you are trying to say is you can
somehow determine what that sandbox will
look like
and uh and possibly maybe you can also
negotiate with your pr legal and also
compliance teams and then and kind of
craft that same box in a way that you
feel comfortable to comfortable to have
a conversation
exactly you know even things like
compliance disclosures there is always a
little bit of wiggle room i used to do
what i called writing friendly
disclosures at schwab because i felt
like i can write you know a paragraph
and then have three paragraphs of
disclosures so i'd always try to think
through yeah i was just like oh no so my
friendly disclaimers that always you
know and for me what i took from that
experience is if you're willing to put
in the time with your legal and
compliance partners and share you know
why you want to change something or
where you're coming from a lot of times
they will figure out how to help you you
know get towards where you wanted to go
but it's all about having that you know
involving them up front versus sending
something past them for a quick review
don't ever do that you will not get a
quick review and they will not be your
friend
exactly i 100 agree i always uh i always
give them a heads up
and especially let them know like i said
hey next two days i'm gonna send this to
you so make sure that they allot time
uh to review that i 100 agree with you
like try to engage with them as early as
possible
another question i would like to ask is
how do you find the right
thought leadership opportunities within
the company what are some of the
low-hanging fruit
that the marketers can explore
to actually have a quick win
on the start leadership site what you
know when they actually have a strategy
in place great great great what are some
of low-hanging fruit that they can do
too quickly to showcase the results
well one of the really smart things to
do is to figure out what are those um
industry associations
or you know or greater you know both at
the individual professional level and at
the larger corporate level that you're
taking part of um in already that you
can get your thought leaders involved
with for example a lot of brands are
members of a a the association of
national advertisers but what a lot of
folks don't know is if you are an a a
member they have all sorts of regional
specialty subject matter groups and they
have amazing conversations on a
quarterly basis or even more frequently
depending upon which region you're in
and those are a really good way to get
your thought leader's feet wet in a
really positive
kind of low stakes environment and i
don't say low stakes because the the
content isn't valuable but it's lower
stakes because these are private
conversations they usually ask you not
to tweet things not to
record things so it's you know you're in
a safe group with your peers um but
you're also making connections with
other folks that you might want to
interview for future thought leadership
or collaborate with so to me it has a
lot of really obvious quick upsides
without a lot of the scariness that can
cause some folks to say no i definitely
don't want to do public speaking when in
fact if you give them a friendly
environment to start in you can quite
frequently convince them uh to do more
of it
yeah so give them exposure right and
what you are saying is basically
find opportunities for them and make
them comfortable
in terms of public speaking or be in
front of the crowd
and build up their confidence and then
eventually they can be kind of like a
brand ambassador or they can be a
subject matter expert
very much public facing so that's great
in terms of low-hanging fruit
um what about
like writing content and a lot of
subject matter experts uh they don't
like to write do you have any suggestion
in terms of what they need to do
totally i've had a lot of ceos that i've
worked with who 100 were not writers and
who also on the flip side 100 were
thrilled to send out pieces i ghost
wrote for them and you know say to
everyone oh look at this piece i wrote
because they had that ownership and felt
like it was you know me inside of their
head um and that's because i do a couple
of different things that anybody can and
should be doing first of all um i try to
get a couple of bullet points and i mean
sketchy three-word bullet points
super high-level bullet points i'm like
just tell me at a high level what are
you thinking or what was something you
read that you want to write a response
to so just getting that kind of like
super sketchy outline so then i can go
away and do some research and then i
always want to do a conversation from a
process standpoint it's like an intake
call where i'm making sure that i
understand their perspective
want to understand anything that they
think that's a little bit different than
other folks so you do some interviewing
and so either doing that live as part of
a conversation like an hour-long
conversation where i'll do intakes for
multiple different topics
or i had one ceo who liked to phone me
whenever he was like stuck in the car
some ideas i was like you know what
everything you can write about this
exactly and he would call and he would
to always tell me put me into voicemail
and i would put him in my voicemail and
he would talk to my voicemail so i would
have a recording
of him you know riffing off of something
that he was thinking about and then i
would write it up and send it back and
we do you know back and forth iteration
so it's really about figuring out you
know is your person a talker are they a
scribbler like do they want to draw you
a picture and send it to you
really understanding how they think and
how they want to share things right now
i have a client who very much likes to
use like mind mapping software
that's one of the products that they
have and he likes to kind of put it
through and think it through
that way and so i always have him start
by sending me a mind map and it's
fantastic it's the best way to get
started on something
but it's also just about whatever
they're comfortable with that makes them
feel like you will get what they're
trying to do and that it won't take too
much of their time
understood so basically try to
understand what um
what are their preferences in terms of
sharing content or sharing their
knowledge it doesn't matter it's on the
phone
or imapping tool
or just talk to you or they simply just
want to scribble some ideas and share
with you
anything that they can do to get
themselves to share their knowledge is a
good starting point exactly
and then of course i always ask whenever
they're doing any kind of public
speaking though i always ask them even
if it's just setting down their phone
and hitting voice memo and recording to
always record that stuff because if you
get a recording you can go and get a
transcript and then all of a sudden you
have all of these maybe
can be a blog post too yeah
you have all of these like one-off great
ideas in exact turns of phrase that then
help you make sure that you're writing
in their voice so i love that too
awesome
i have one last question so thought
leadership is great idea and for a lot
of companies that they if they want to
differentiate themselves and also put a
such a unique
lens
in terms of who they are having a
thought leadership content having a
thought leadership position would
definitely differentiate them
but there's such a long play
right and if you want to do a thought
leadership it's not like oh my god i'm
running a three-month campaign this is a
long play and
and the
a lot of marketers are hesitant to
actually do it because you cannot show a
quick results like you cannot
demonstrate oh you know it quantifies
certain dollar of the pipeline
opportunities or you quantify how many
leads that you have generated so it does
not have that direct tie to sales
and a lot of people tend to allocate the
budget to do something that will show
quick results
so
how should they deal or position
in terms of a thought leadership pitch
to their management when the direct tie
to the sales is not necessarily very
clear
for me i think it's about figuring out
you know it's kind of there's two
there's kind of like two different
things
one is the figuring out how can you
actually show some roi from those
specific things that they're going out
there and sharing and then the other one
is
understanding what opportunities you
pick that have an intrinsic roi so for
the first part
things that i've done successfully in
order to have a direct ability to show
roi from speaking at an event are either
having um doing a text response so
having a you know texture email address
to
this you know um cell phone number and
then getting like a packet with like a
workbook that goes along with the
session
or i've had it where it's like here's a
special bitly url that if you go to this
page and fill out a lead capture form
you get you know this
template
um so there or you have like a special
code that you're only giving out in this
session or that you're only using in
utms on a link in a blog post so there
are some things you can do to actually
more accurately and of course no you
know no attribution is 100 that's like a
big thing everyone's arguing about now
it's like attribution is never 100 of
course not
especially offline if you do any kind of
offline stuff it's very hard to quantify
online attributes exactly exactly so
and of course you can give away swag too
and then when that swag starts turning
up on social or you see people wearing
it or carrying it around then that's
another way that you can say there was
some real roi because now this person
who is you know part of our target
community they're out there running
around repping our brand so we made a
good impression so those are the like
kind of to me really easy ways of
showing the roi now on the other side of
it you can also prioritize those places
where let's say
if you're talking about hr technology
probably your company unless you know
you have a huge budget
you're not going to have the money to
take out a series of ads in sherm's
magazine so if you're a startup you're
going to want to figure out how can i
get in front of that audience without
spending you know a hundred thousand
dollars a year of assurance right huge
amount of media dollars yeah
well the way you do it is you come up
with an amazing topic idea and you
partner with one of your customers who
has a really good title in a really
relevant industry and you put in a
speaking submission and so then you're
able to get in front of and be promoted
to
sherm's entire membership across the
united states
that is something where you can say that
hey well i my session was promoted in x
y and z ways and so my name our company
name and associating us with this topic
that's gone out to all of these people
and so i think if you were doing like
making really strategic
bets and strategic investments
on trying to get out in front of those
right audiences then i think 100 you can
have a more provable concrete roi for
your thought leadership efforts
i think the key takeaway from what you
just said is whenever you create a
thought leadership content and when you
write a copy to promote that content
make sure you have a very specific call
to action it doesn't matter you are
speaking at the events or you are
promoting it on social media posts
as a social media post and actually have
a very specific call to action that you
can drive to doesn't matter is to fill
out the form or it's a contact sales or
download certain content pieces but have
a very specific call to action
and then the other one is if you are
promoting it and make sure you document
it that if content has been shared or
been highlighted
at a certain industry
journals or a specific event or a
certain media outlet kind of take that
and document it and you share that to
quantify in terms of yes you know some
these content pieces or the events that
you do
or the activities that you do related to
thought leadership actually have a
certain kind of impact
exactly
i should hire you
[Laughter]
thank you guys so sweet i'll just take
you around in my pocket and you can
paraphrase me i love it
[Laughter]
so you know what to end the show i would
like to ask you one more question and
this is kind of like the fun question
usually so what shows are you binge
watching right now
you know i'm waiting for the great
british bake off to come back and i feel
like that should oh my god me too
that would be why season 12 or something
i love i i love the big off me i love
that show and then of course top chef i
always get really into top chef hey
erica it's so wonderful to have you on
my show thank you so much for having me
well i hope to see you soon take care
bye
bye bye
[Music]
never miss an episode of b2b marketing
and more by following us here on youtube
and leave a comment while you're at it
you can also find episodes wherever you
get your podcasts
[Music]
you